---
title: About
template: article.jade
---

This is a series of articles describing data analysis, language processing, and visualization of the Wikileaks diplomatic cable data. Frustratingly, there is not yet a clear _point_ to the analyses beyond understanding how to make sense of massive, potentially important releases of interpersonal communication. This kind of information is likely to be released - willingly or not - at an even greater rate as digitization and disconnectedness becomes pervasive. Already the preferred method of concealing vital information is shifting from access limitations to obscurity by [data overload](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document_dump)  (see also: [factual](http://www.rff.org/RFF/Documents/RFF-DP-11-45.pdf) and [fictional](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Pale_King) examples). Such data demands to be analyzed, and new tools must be developed to do so. There is an additional, selfish goal of learning to write about data concisely and clearly, where this "short" About Page can probably be classified as a failing example.

The choice of leaked cables as study data merits a few more sentences. Though whistle-blowing is a vital element of any healthy society, blind dumps of classified government information (and that's what this was) do not count. To put it bluntly, I strongly disagree with the Wikileaks argument that the US is less democratic because it harbours classified documents. In fact, it's hard for me to see how a free, democratic society can durably exist without a strong security state. However, when unethical leaks do occur, the urge to avoid or ignore them is also misguided. Leaked data will certainly be exploited, and as we have seen with exploits in other areas, openness and communication are the keys to limiting their abuse. An outbreak is not stemmed by pretending that it is not happening, but by recruiting the public to study its effects.

If this reads too much like a manifesto I hope the reader accepts my sincere apologies. Liberty and tyranny aside, the point here is to make some cool graphs and get a better understanding of this mess of things we're staring at every day.

The title of this page is taken, with all due respect, from the 02/28/2003 [Department of Defense briefing](http://www.defense.gov/Transcripts/Transcript.aspx?TranscriptID=1976):

> Rumsfeld: Oh, I think in the last analysis, the United States government is -- daily demonstrates its inability to deal with nuance. (Laughs, laughter.) Therefore, I think what you'll find -- (laughter) -- I think what you'll find is, whatever it is we do substantively, there will be near-perfect clarity as to what it is. And it will be known, and it will be known to the Congress and it will be known to you, probably before we decide it, but it will be known. And it will have to be something that is consistent with their circumstance as well.